{% include h2.html text="Majoritarian voting" %}

These are single-winner systems where an absolute majority of votes is required to win the seat that is contested. This majority is seldom achieved during a single round of simple voting, so the methods used employ a method to correct this. Such methods include:

* {% include wp.html link="Exhaustive ballot" %}&mdash;wherein if there are *N* candidates, then there are potentially up to *N-1* rounds of voting. In round 1, all N candidates are eligible to be voted for. If no singular candidate receives over 50% of votes the candidate with the fewest votes is eliminated. Then the next round is conducted with the remaining *N-1* candidates. If no singular candidate achieves the >50% required to win, then the candidate that received the fewest votes is eliminated and the third round of voting occurs with the remaining *N-2* candidates. Then, if no singular candidate achieves the >50% of votes required to win, the candidate with the fewest votes is eliminated and the remaining *N-3* candidates go on to the next round of voting. Then this is repeated until a winner that receives over 50% of votes is decided. This system is rare as it can be quite tedious and expensive due to the number of rounds that might be necessary.

* {% include wp.html link="Instant-runoff voting" %}&mdash;essentially an attempt to condense an exhaustive ballot system into a single round of voting. In it voters are asked to assign numbers in order of preference next to the various candidates. So their preferred candidate would receive a number 1 next to their name, their second preferred candidate would receive a number 2 next to their name, then their third preference would receive a 3 next to their name and so forth. There are two main variants of this system: one in which all candidates need to be numbered, so called "full preferential voting"; and {% include wp.html link="optional preferential voting" puncr='",' puncl='"' %} wherein not all candidates need to be numbered in order of preference (although quite often there is a certain number that do need to be numbered). This system is used by the voters directly in national elections of three countries I am aware of:

   * Australia, in elections for members of the House of Representatives.
   * Papua New Guinea, in elections for members of their National Parliament (a unicameral legislature).
   * Republic of Ireland, in elections for their president.

* {% include wp.html link="Two-round system" %}&mdash;where voters indicate their preferred candidate in the first round of voting. Then, if no singular candidate manages to receive the required percentage of votes to win, a second round of voting is conducted, wherein all but the two candidates that received the most votes in the first round are eliminated. Whichever candidate receives the most votes in the second round is declared the winner.