Borrowed aspects of the Australian system
==========================================

**Westminster characteristics** incorporated in the Australian system and in the systems of most Australian states include:<sup><a href="#f1">1</a></sup>

1. A {% include wp.html link="head of state" f=b %} that either holds {% include wt.html link="de jure" f="i" word-class="Adjective" %} supreme executive power or has a representative that holds such power and the power to promulgate (or not) laws, but that by convention only acts on the advice of the {% include wp.html link="cabinet" art="cabinet_(government)" %} {% include wp.html link="ministers" puncr="," art="Minister_(government)" %} except in exceptional circumstances when they utilize their {% include wp.html link="reserve powers" puncr="." %} They are meant to act as an independent, non-partisan referee that can only use their reserve powers when necessary in order to defend the constitution.
2. A separate {% include wt.html link="de facto" f="i" word-class="Adjective" %} {% include wp.html link="head of government" %} (HoG) that by convention is appointed by the head of state or their representative, and is the "first among equals" with the other cabinet ministers. The HoG is, by convention, the parliamentary leader of the party that occupies the most seats in the lower house of the parliament, or is the leader of the largest party within the coalition that occupies more seats than the other parties or coalitions in the lower house of the parliament. This HoG, by convention, also occupies a seat in this lower house.
3. Cabinet ministers that are elected parliamentary members of the party or coalition who's members occupy a majority of seats in the lower house of the parliament. In the case of a hung parliament, where no party or coalition occupies a majority of seats, whichever party or coalition occupies more seats than the rest normally gets to form government. Ministerial roles that have existed in Australia ever since Federation include: Attorney-General, Minister for Defence, Prime Minister, and Treasurer. 
4. A treasurer that occupies a seat in the lower house.
5. An attorney-general that is a member of the cabinet and an attorney by trade. 
6. A lower house comprised solely of members elected from single member electorates, such as using {% include wp.html link="first-past-the-post" %} (FPTP; the chief method used historically) or {% include wp.html link="instant-runoff voting" %} (IRV). This is where New Zealand's system, for example, breaks with tradition, as does Tasmania, as they use (semi-)proportional representation for their lower house.
7. An executive government that is solely accountable to the lower house of the bicameral parliament; three out of six state parliaments and the Commonwealth Parliament do not strictly fit this, however, as their upper houses can block supply, which can trigger the dissolution of the Parliament and/or the dismissal/resignation of the government. Queensland is also an exception to this rule as its legislature is unicameral. 
8. A constitutional or by convention requirement that the governing party or coalition must secure supply by passing the required appropriation bills through the parliament; failing this, they may be dismissed by the head of state or their representative. This is what happened in Australia during the {% include wp.html link="1975 constitutional crisis" puncr="," %} when the Governor-General dismissed the Prime Minister.
9. An official {% include wp.html link="parliamentary opposition" art="Opposition_(parliamentary)" %} that is either the party or coalition that occupies the most seats in the lower house of the parliament of any party or coalition that is not in government. This is assuming the system is multi-party, which most Westminster systems are, but some of the smaller countries with such a system are non-partisan, so do not meet this requirement. 
10. {% include wp.html link="Parliamentary privilege" %}&mdash;which allows for free and open speech in the parliament without any potential for legal repercussions. 
11. Cabinet decisions are either reached by consensus or by voting; it is not a simple matter of what the HoG wants is what they get (unlike in the US).
12. Cabinet solidarity&mdash;once the cabinet reaches a decision all ministers are expected to adhere to it and respect it; they are also expected not to publicly criticize the actions of other members of the Cabinet and the exercise of their powers over their own respective portfolio.
13. {% include wp.html link="Hansard" %}&mdash;a transcript of parliamentary meetings.
14. Strong {% include wp.html link="party discipline" %}&mdash;members of a given party nearly always vote the same way on a bill. The ALP even has formal rules to discourage parliamentary members from voting in a way contrary to the way the rest of the party votes. This reduces the likelihood of a successful motion of no confidence against the government. 

While the **American aspects of our system** include:

1. An elected upper house, or {% include wp.html link="Senate" art="Australian_Senate" puncr="," %} that represents each of the original states equally. At the time of Federation, some, but not all, US senators were directly popular elected, with the remaining senators elected by state legislatures. By contrast, the British and Canadian systems had and still have appointed, and not elected upper houses. 
2. An upper house with almost equal legislative powers to the lower house, with the main exception being that they cannot introduce or amend {% include wp.html link="money bills" art="Money_bill" %}. To be fair, at the time of Federation, this was also a characteristic of the British system. 
3. The Constitution specifies only the powers that belong to the federal government and that all other powers belong to the states. This is as opposed to the Canadian system, for example, wherein the Constitution only specifies powers that belong to the states, with all other powers vested in the federal government. This is also in contrast to the original Westminster system, as in such a system the state is a unitary state, so there is no federal arrangement. 
4. The names of our legislature's lower and upper houses&mdash;the House of Representatives and the Senate, respectively.
5. A codified Constitution, that cannot be unilaterally amended by the federal legislature. 
6. A federal arrangement, where the autonomy of the states cannot be revoked unilaterally by the federal government and where the federal government can only pass laws on certain subjects (which is called dual federalism; this has since changed in the US, but at the time of Federation, this was something that the two nations shared).
7. An independent, strong judiciary (well, almost, as members of the judiciary are appointed by the executive, and can only be removed by the mutual cooperation between the executive and legislature, when certain conditions are met) that cannot be dissolved by a simple act of the legislature. 

Unlike Canada and the US, there are no restrictions placed on the age of members of the legislative and executive branches, except that they are old enough to vote and be considered an adult in the eyes of the law. Also, unlike the US, there are no requirements regarding how their citizenship was obtained; according to the US Constitution, the President has to have been born in the US or otherwise eligible for citizenship upon birth, like by having a parent with US citizenship.