Appointment method
===================

I was actually in favour of the President being directly elected, but then I realized that if the President is meant to be an independent referee, then what's the point to making it a popularity contest? Like, what are their campaigns going to be based on? Their political attitudes? As, if it is based on their political attitudes, then we'd be electing someone with an inherent bias with regards to the various parties (favouring the party they are either in, or most agree with the policies of), which is precisely what the President is not meant to have.

A President being nominated by the {% include wp.html art="Attorney-General_of_Australia" link="Attorney-General" %} (AG), {% include wp.html art="Prime_Minister_of_Australia" link="Prime Minister" %} (PM) or {% include wp.html art="Deputy_Prime_Minister_of_Australia" link="Deputy PM" %} (DPM), or their shadow counterparts, based on their legal qualifications (and hence ability to understand their constitutional obligations and what constitutes a constitutional violation they need to remedy) and impartiality, then confirmed by a two-thirds majority vote in Parliament, sounds like a decent method of selecting them. Although, what happens if the Parliament cannot agree on whom to elect? If such a system is implemented I propose using {% include wp.html link="instant-runoff voting" %} (IRV) to decide between candidates nominated by the AG, DPM and PM instead. 

Despite this, I want the President to have reason for upholding the will of the people more than the will of the Parliament, so I think a directly elected President, with at least a <abbr title="Bachelor of Laws">L.L.B.</abbr> degree with honours, is still the way to go. I want this accountability to the people because that way the President will be incentivized to call an early election if the Government too happily breaks its pre-election promises (per the [Presidential powers](#Presidential-powers) section).