Citizen-initiated referenda
============================

I also propose adding to the Constitution the ability to initiate a referendum by starting a petition that receives signatures from at least 10% of eligible voters within a 5 year period. These referenda should be binding on the Government, that is, if they receive 10% of signatures within 5 years the Government has to call the referendum. Likewise, if the referendum passes they have to implement the requested changes. These referenda may be on:

* laws, either enacting new laws or vetoing recently passed laws; or
* executive orders, either enacting new ones, or vetoing recent executive decisions. 

The wording of the question to be given to voters will also be set in stone (as if it is edited at the last moment the referendum triggered may be quite different from the one the signatories and originator wanted), and uneditable by the Government before the referendum is called. The question's wording will be vetted by an attorney at the governmental office wherein the petition is picked up and started. The attorney will work with the initiator on the wording; once they agree on the wording, a photocopy of the petition will be sent to the AG's office and their shadow counterpart for their approval, and once the AG or SAG approves it, the petition will start circulating. If the AG or SAG do not approve the wording, the AG or SAG, or an attorney they have allowed to act on their behalf, and the initiator of the referendum will discuss and adjust the wording until they agree on it. The purpose of this vetting process is in case the initiator of the referendum proposes a change that cannot be legally implemented, or asks a question that is very vague and due to its ambiguity, cannot be implemented, or if it is implemented is likely to have major unintended consequences. 