Electorate meetings
====================

Likewise, I propose allowing citizens the ability to call an **electorate meeting**, using a petition that receives signatures from 10% of eligible voters within the electorate within a six month period. In these meetings every eligible voter within the electorate is allowed to join in discussions about whether the MP or senator the meeting is about has been meeting their obligations to them. Whether they have broken any pre-election promises, whether they have behaved in a way contrary to their interests, *etc.* Due to the sizes of some electorates we should allow people to remotely attend using technology as well (e.g. Skype). A weeks notice will be necessary before the meeting, which will be held early during a Saturday night (as it tends to be most convenient to people, from a work point of view). 

At the end everyone will be given the chance to retake the vote that appointed the MP/senator in question in the first place. They will assign preferences, with all the candidates that were running in the original election available as options, and then using IRV or STV the winner(s) will be decided. If the person the meeting is about loses by a significant margin (that will be decided based on the percentage of eligible voters that are present at the meeting), a new election will be called. But, the candidate elected in this possible re-election will only serve out the rest of the term that their predecessor started (i.e. when the next federal election is called their seat will also be up for re-election).