National electoral reform
=================

If my electorate meetings proposed change is not made, then the {% include wp.html art="Australian_House_of_Representatives" link="House of Representatives" %} should be elected using a proportional or semi-proportional representation system, such as {% include wp.html link="mixed-member proportional representation" f="b" %} (**MMPR**) or {% include wp.html link="single transferable vote" f="b" %} (**STV**). Why? To maximize the people's trust in the system, their willingness to voluntarily participate (as opposed to solely participating due to compulsory voting requirements) and maximize its fairness.<sup><a href="#ref1" link="_blank">1</a></sup>

STV might be best, as it allows the proportionality to be easily adjusted by merely adjusting the number of members per electorate and the number of electorates used to elect members to the House. 

If MMPR is used {% include wp.html link="instant-runoff voting" %} (IRV) should be used to elect members from single-member electorates and an {% include wp.html art="Open_list" link="open list" %} should be used for the proportional representation component. If a party/independent does not receive enough votes for them to win a seat their votes should be passed on to second preferences, if that second preference does not get in either, then they should pass to the third preference and so forth. Likewise, if a party receives more votes than necessary to get them the number of seats they end up getting, their excess votes should be transferred to their next preference, if they get an excess the votes will transfer to the next preference and so forth.

Ideally the number of members of the House and the Senate should be quintupled (multiplied by five), with four times as many senators per state and the two main mainland territories receiving the same number of senators as the states do. In fact, I am somewhat inclined to think all dependent territories with a local population of at least five hundred (which would include the external territories of Christmas Island, Cocos (Keeling) Islands and Norfolk Island) should be given an equal number of senators to the mainland territories. If only mainland territories are given an equal number of senators this should give a total of 384 senators (8 states/mainland territories times 48), if all are included the number of senators per state/territory should be only tripled to 36, as otherwise this will result in too many senators. At 36 senators for each of the 5 territories and 6 states, we get a figure of 396 senators total, which is at least workable. The reason for giving territories an equal number of senators is to reduce the odds of the Commonwealth using their relatively low representation in the federal Parliament to bully them. An increased number of representatives in the Senate should improve the proportionality of the Senate. Likewise, the House should have a total of 5 times 151 members, or 755 members.

If the number of members of each house of the Parliament is quintupled it might require a new Parliament House to be built, as the present Parliament House has far too few seats to accommodate so many representatives.

It might also be prudent to transfer the responsibility for calling for new Senate elections to the federal government, instead of the state governments. Why? To minimize the potential for the states to hold the federal government over a barrel using this power. Full Senate elections should also occur every three years, instead of mere half-Senate elections so as to minimize the potential for deadlocks (as if they are completely re-elected at around the same time and are both at least roughly proportional the odds of their party compositions being so radically different that it causes a deadlock should be lower).