National electoral reform
=================

The Constitution should be amended to allow electorates for the {% include wp.html art="Australian_House_of_Representatives" link="<b>House of Representatives</b>" %} (**HoR**) to cross state borders, and to remove the requirement that all original states have at least 5 MPs. The Constitution should also be amended to remove the prohibition on electorates crossing state borders and mandate that the '{% include wp.html link="one vote, one value" %}' principle be upheld for the HoR, with at most 5% variation in the number of voters each MP represents. This is to fix the malapportionment in the HoR&mdash;presently, the five Tasmanian electorates each have approximately 50,000 fewer voters than the {% include wp.html link="Division of Cowper" %} in New South Wales (NSW), and that is largely because the Constitution mandates that each original state have at least 5 MPs and that electorates cannot cross state borders.

It would also be ideal to increase the number of members of the HoR to 324. In the {% include wp.html link="first federal election" art="1901_Australian_federal_election" puncr="," %} there were approximately 6,746 voters per MP, while in the {% include wp.html link="2019 election" art="2019_Australian_federal_election" %} there were approximately 94,393 voters per MP. Steadily, over time the number of voters per MP has been trending upward; it is about time we do something about it. With more MPs proper apportionment will likely be easier. 

A referendum should be held to make the Senate fully proportionally representative, with members elected by multiple transferable vote (MTV). 

In MTV, you get two or more votes:

1. One is for a candidate to represent them in their regional electorate. The number of positions to be filled per electorate can be more than one; the winner(s) are/is chosen using single transferable vote (STV).

2. Another is for a party or candidate to represent them at large. Preferences given to party members are counted both towards the candidate and their party. If the party gets more than enough votes to earn an additional seat, beyond that given to them based on regional votes, they earn an additional seat and the seat goes to the most preferred candidate (and, of course, if multiple seats are won the seats will be filled according to the preferences accrued by individual candidates). If the party does not get enough votes to get an additional seat, beyond that they got from regional electorates, they get no additional seats, but their vote stays with the party or the candidate in that party they voted for, unless no regional seats were won, in which case the vote is transferred according to next preferences.

There can be more than two votes&mdash;if there’s more than one tier of regional electorate in which voters vote in&mdash;with the procedure outlined in (2) also applied to those additional tiers of regional votes. e.g., if MTV was used to elect the Australian Senate, and each voter had three votes—one for a regional candidate, another to represent them on a state level, and a third to represent them on a national level—the procedure outlined in (2) would be applied both to the state candidates and to the national candidates. 