{% include wp.html link="Bill of rights" %}
===============

A bill of rights should be passed as a regular Act of the Commonwealth Parliament after going through multiple parliamentary committees to ensure it was well-drafted, then if no significant changes seem necessary after 10 years of its enactment, a referendum should be held to entrench it into the Constitution. 
It would be ideal if the state parliaments would refer to the Commonwealth Parliament under {% include wp.html link="Section 51(xxxvii) of the Constitution" art="Section_51(xxxvii)_of_the_Constitution_of_Australia" %} the power to apply this bill of rights, while it is still a regular Act of Parliament, to them as well. This would be useful as the more of the country's government that is bound by this bill of rights, the more testing it will receive in the courts and hence the more likely any flaws will be detected. 

Such an Act should safeguard:

<ul>
<li>Freedom of speech&mdash;only limits will be on libel, the burden of proof on the falsity of the claims will be on the plaintiff; speech that endangers citizens, e.g. yelling fire in a crowded theatre, as it can lead to people being trampled; or national security, e.g. revealing military secrets.</li>
<li>Freedom of expression&mdash;to prevent any possible banning of symbols like the swastika, hammer and sickle, or even Nazi salutes, regardless of how we feel about them.</li>
<li>Freedom of association&mdash;to forbid any future attempt to ban a political party. Granted, the High Court would likely do that for us, but it is nice to make it even more clear.</li>
<li>Freedom of information&mdash;to ensure that everything paid for, even in part, by taxpayer dollars that do not touch on matters of national security, or other sensitive matters (e.g. information about private citizens, that have not been convicted of a crime that the report relates to), are released into the public domain and copyright-free. For example, if a drug company has applied for drug approval this fact and any decisions by the TGA will be made public. Other products of the government, will be made freely accessible too.<br/><br/>

ABC-produced (as opposed to those merely aired on the ABC but produced by the BBC) programs will be indefinitely available for free on iview without advertisements. Those involving professional actors will not be released into the public domain, however, as professional TV actors that are often in them usually expect more of a wage than they can get from taxpayers alone, so to supplement their income they will get some money from international sales, which will likely be reduced if it is public domained here, as that will enable them to be shared online in places where people in other countries can see them.<br/><br/>

Publications involving research funded by taxpayers will be in the public domain, and freely accessible online. Publications written by government employees, including academics working at public universities, will be released into the public domain and freely accessible online also. Publications produced by taxpayer-funded publishers, like those of public universities, will also be released into the public domain and available for free online. This will make the {% include wp.html link="Macquarie Dictionary" puncr="," %} the authoritative text on the {% include wp.html link="Australian English" %} language, freely accessible online, which seems right given that it catalogues a language that belongs to all Australians. Likewise, publications that are based on even partially taxpayer-funded research will also be released into the public domain and made freely accessible.</li>
<li>Right of adults to make decisions that only impact on themselves. If you would like to take recreational drugs, that is your right. If you commit a crime while under the influence you will be legally barred from using that as an excuse for your crime.</li>
<li>Right to not be exposed to dangerous substances. No one should be forced to encounter a health hazard, whether daily or otherwise. For example, if you are going to an employment agency, because you have to in order to receive unemployment benefits, you should not have to deal with a smoker there that reeks of third-hand smoke. Likewise, in the workplace you should not be forced to work with a smoker that reeks of third-hand smoke.</li>
<li><i>{% include wp.html link="Habeas corpus" %}</i>&mdash;everyone has the right to demand to be brought before a court and argue the legality of their detainment. If it is impossible to bring them before a court within an hour of this demand, the police have to let them go. Maximum detainment without charge will be 24 hours.</li>
<li>One's rights against cruel and unusual punishment.</li>
<li>Right to feel safe, to safeguard prisoners from abuse in prison. If someone is imprisoned the state is responsible (and can be sued for failure to safeguard) for their safety. No one should be raped, or assaulted in prison, regardless of crime. After all, if they are abused in there, how likely is it that they will come out of prison even more dangerous to society, and perhaps even completely useless to it (unable to work, for example)?</li>
<li>Right to life. Capital punishment is already illegal nationwide, but we should probably prevent it from ever being legalized.</li>
<li>Right to equal treatment before the law and in the workplace (where practical), regardless of race, criminal record, gender identity, sexual orientation, political beliefs, <i>etc.</i> Although, the emphasis there is <i>where practical</i>, e.g. if you are applying for an acting job and the character you are auditioning for is a person of the opposite gender, a different race, <i>etc.</i> it is reasonable for you to be refused the part for this reason. Likewise, if you are applying for a teaching position and you have a conviction for paedophilic acts, it is reasonable to deny this application, out of concern for the safety of the children you would be teaching.</li>
<li>Access to the essentials of life, like housing, clean water, food and healthcare.</li>
</ul>

Many of those in the last bullet point above could be provided without too much cost to the system, like food can be provided by food thrown out by supermarkets and restaurants that are not past their expiry date. Likewise, there are many houses in Australia that are unoccupied, if the government bought them, and kept multiple homeless people in each, but screened them for infectious disease, infestations (e.g. scabies), smoking habits, criminal records, _etc._, to ensure they do not pose any risk of any kind to anyone else in there, they could do this in an affordable manner. Naturally, they will be required to keep the common areas and where they sleep clean and the house will be inspected for any health hazards (e.g. unhygienic conditions, mould, _etc._). Privacy in the bathroom would also be safeguarded, as it is a basic right.

Many towns and communities in Australia, like Charters Towers and Great Palm Island, are without clean tap water. We need to rectify this. This is a developed country, and we give millions of dollars in foreign aid (or *charity to foreign nations*) each year, so what does it say about us if we cannot at least take care of our own? Charity begins at home. 

If you are worried this will lead to greater unemployment, as the unemployed will be less motivated to search for work, I doubt it, I think it might boost it, because it will make the homeless less repulsive to potential employers (by allowing them to shower, and perhaps have greater sanity, as they will not be dehumanized by having to live on the street), and give them reason to work. I would imagine some homeless people do not work, because they cannot get a job that will pay them enough to get off the street, so they think, "What's the point?" If they already have a place to stay, and all the additional money can do is give them some extra security, allow them to buy some luxuries (e.g. a phone), and perhaps buy their own home where they do not need to share, it might motivate them to work and search for work even harder. Finland tried a universal basic income, which some feared would lead to a higher unemployment rate, but it made no difference to unemployment.