Federal corruption commission
==============================

There should be a federal organization to tackle corruption or other wrongdoing in the federal government. With the consent of the states, it would also be good if this commission had the ability to investigate state officials too. This commission should be fully independent from the ministers of state, to ensure they cannot use their position to quash unwanted investigations into themselves, or others they would rather not be investigated, or start politically-motivated investigations into their opponents. 

All new employees should be investigated by the Australian Federal Police (AFP) and commission members, for evidence of both corruption and corruptibility (i.e. susceptibility to being blackmailed or extorted, like things that could be held over them), before being allowed on staff. 

Why should they be allowed to investigate state officials? Because, the state corruption watchdogs are not quite as independent from the ministers of their states, as this organization will be from both federal ministers of state and state ministers. The more independent the watchdog is from the ministers, the lower the potential for them to use their position of power to quash unwanted investigations. 

If the commission finds strong evidence of corruption or misconduct, the official in question will be brought before a court and the proceedings will be made public and televised across the nation, to ensure transparency. If they are found guilty, regardless of the severity of the crime, they will be stripped of their role and forever barred from serving in any position of power within the government, except in the military in times of conscription, in which case they will be heavily supervised and prevented from ever ascending through the ranks.