Reforms to other states and territories
=====================================

I would like to see the proportionally representative houses of the parliaments of Tasmania, Victoria and Western Australia use a STV at-large system, with their whole respective states treated as a single electorate for the purpose of electing said houses. Why? To maximize their proportionality, although this may require Tasmania to switch from having their lower house proportionally representative to their upper house, so as to prevent the difficulty in governing that is seen in some countries with a proportionally representative lower house. These proportionally representative houses should have at least the same powers over their respective other house as the Senate has over the House of Representatives (so the ability to accept or reject any legislation, and the ability to introduce or amend any legislation other than those pertaining to money). 

The premiers and chief ministers should also be {% include wt.html link="primus inter pares" f="i" language="Latin" %} with the other ministers in their government, that is, their power should be equal with the main distinguishing characteristic between the premier/chief minister and the other ministers being that they are the spokesperson of the government. 

The governors and administrators of the various states and territories should have their reserve powers codified, and be directly popularly elected via instant-runoff voting. 

The constitutions of the various states and territories should also be entirely entrenched, requiring a referendum for any amendment to be made. The territorial parliaments should be given back the ability to legislate on euthanasia. Likewise, the populated external territories (e.g. Christmas Island, Cocos (Keeling) Islands and Norfolk Island) should be asked, via referendum, whether they would like to have their own respective parliaments, or whether they would like to continue on with their present administrative arrangement. 

Unreasonable discrimination (as opposed to reasonable discrimination, like preventing a paedophile from being a schoolteacher) in the workplace with regards to people with a criminal conviction should also be banned in the other states and territories (although, I am aware it is already banned in the Northern Territory and Tasmania).